ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
Previously on "Dance Moms."
Soldiers, are you ready?
- DANCERS: Yes, ma'am!
- ABBY LEE: This is war.
- What about me?
- What about you?
You're on suspension.
That's good right there.
[laughs] That's it.
Good, good, good.
I had some new head shots taken.
OK.
Woo, that's beautiful.
I'm gonna take Kenzie to the hospital.
Mackenzie actually
hurt her foot two weeks ago.
- Don't lie for your kids.
- I'm not. I watched her!
ABBY LEE: You lie enough
yourself as it is.
[dramatic music]
In seventh place--
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
Coming up on "Dance Moms."
Group routine is about Rosa Parks.
Do something with that face!
We won last time.
Remember that.
Can I have an amen?
ALL: Amen!
I can't choreograph
with you sitting over here.
Maybe if we throw a stick,
she'll leave.
I'm not the one
that fell down the ugly tree.
I'm really not sure
who I want to use as Rosa Parks.
Let's give it to one of the blondes.
What's the status with Rosa Parks?
Christi and Kelly are going berserk.
She just threw all of us under the bus.
[THEME - NIKKO LOWE, "LIVING ON
THE DANCE FLOOR"]
(SINGING) Get up.
Get on the floor.
My world is with my girls,
living on the dance floor.
[new age dance music]
ABBY LEE: Come on, girls!
Let's go!
MELISSA (VOICEOVER): I'm really worried
when Abby comes into Pyramid
what she's going to say
about seventh place.
We're normally in the top three,
and that's even hard to take.
Seventh is awful.
In seventh place,
with a score of 274.2 points
is Act Number 84, "Don't Ask, Just Tell."
[tense music]
I've been trying to figure out,
what does the Abby Lee Dance Company
need to do to get back
to first overall high score?
We went all the way to Minnesota.
I've never been there before,
and I'm probably never going back.
Our top soloist couldn't even win.
All right, now for the Pyramid--
Mackenzie.
I told you to stay off of your foot.
I even went and got you a wheelchair
so that you weren't standing
on hard cement all day long,
but you didn't listen.
You were hopping all over the place.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): Melissa
claims that she's injured,
and then the next day she's fine
and she can dance again.
I don't know what to really believe.
This week, you are benched.
You will not be performing.
Paige.
You do a good job.
It's fine.
But I don't want good.
I don't want fine.
Paige could win a Nobel Prize,
and she would still be
at the bottom of the Pyramid.
Brooke. But in the group dance,
you're almost lethargic.
You move slow.
You don't have a lot of (SNAPPING) zip,
a lot of energy.
KELLY (VOICEOVER): I don't know
if it has something to do with me.
But no matter what my kids do,
they're always at the bottom.
ABBY LEE: Chloe.
Have you learned your lesson?
I hope so.
Chloe is suspended.
So is her mother.
Replace us.
That's fine.
CHRISTI (VOICEOVER):
I don't like the Pyramid,
but I have really been trying
to behave myself,
because it really means a lot
for Chloe to be on that Pyramid.
Moving on up, Maddie,
second two weeks in a row.
We're gonna see,
do you have what it takes?
Can you get past second?
Next, Kendall.
Jill, I used your new head shot
that you gave me.
JILL (VOICEOVER): I got
some gorgeous head shots
made for Kendall.
Abby loved them.
She put it on the Pyramid.
KELLY (VOICEOVER): I didn't get
the memo that we were supposed
to stop and get new head shots
for Pyramid this week.
Jill always has the one-up everybody.
- MELISSA: It's beautiful.
- Do you guys like it?
I didn't realize we were doing
new head shots for the Pyramid.
Um--
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): You never quite
know what to expect from Jill.
She claims she's not sneaky,
but there's always some surprise.
Kendall's a pretty girl.
You have the face, but you go
on stage and you don't use it.
And on top of the Pyramid
this week
- is Nia.
- [applause]
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): I'm ecstatic.
I am absolutely ecstatic that
Nia's on the top of the Pyramid.
I thought you looked great.
Your face was off the charts.
You were Beyonce up there.
- I like that.
- Nia Fierce.
Mm-hmm.
It's a pay-off of all of that hard work,
and it means
a tremendous amount to her.
Now, this week,
we will be attending
Powerhouse Dance Competition
in Cincinnati, Ohio.
And I have a rotten feeling
that you-know-who
is going to be there.
The last time we faced Cathy, she beat us,
and that can't ever happen again.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): There's nothing
that ruins a competition like Cathy.
The group routine is about Rosa Parks.
HOLLY: Rosa Parks
served as a catalyst
for a civil rights movement
by refusing to stand up
and give up her seat on a bus.
I didn't really learn
about Rosa Parks in school,
but I know who she is because of my mom.
She broke down barriers,
and she united entire races.
I like routines
that move the judges in some way.
If the girls just do exactly
what they're supposed to do,
we may not be second.
We may actually win this time.
Since Nia's at the top
of the Pyramid
and if the dance is called Rosa Parks,
then obviously
this is a part destined for Nia.
ABBY LEE: Don't assume anything.
I have no idea who will play Rosa Parks.
[clears throat]
[laughter]
Really?
I'm just saying.
I absolutely want Nia
to play the role of Rosa Parks,
but this is the big lead role
in the number this week.
She has to give it her all
before I'm even gonna let her know
that the part is hers.
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): I'm annoyed.
Here is finally a part from Nia,
and Abby's playing games.
Holly, what's going
on with the short skirt?
And your hair is in your face.
I mean, come on.
I'm surprised you don't like my style.
I don't.
Who is Abby to be calling Holly out
on her fashion sense?
I mean, really?
My favorite part about Abby's accessories
is that they're all organized
in a shoe box by color--
red plastic rhinestone crap,
blue plastic rhinestone crap.
ABBY LEE: I don't know. I just think that
an award-winning costume designer
would have picked something better.
The judges award for Fierce Costume--
congratulations
to Number 25.
[applause]
And who made your costume?
Well, my mom made my costume.
ANNOUNCER 1: Congratulations.
You have stylist on your resume now, too?
Oh, I've been dressing people for years.
I've been dying to spruce up
Holly a little bit.
So with the Rosa Parks
thing dangling over her head,
this might just be the week.
Kendall?
You will be doing a solo
again this weekend.
The name of your routine
is "Look At Me Now."
We're going to do some exercises
about this face.
My other solo will go to Maddie.
The name of your routine this week
is breaking down walls.
Now, remember, I gave you a lifeline.
You dropped it.
You had to climb up a hill,
and you rolled back down.
I was really sad
that I won second place last week,
but I'm really happy
now that Miss Abby gave me
another chance, so I can win.
ABBY LEE: We're going to see,
do you have what it takes?
I have one more routine.
Paige, for years, you have begged me
to do a duet with Chloe.
And all this time,
I've been waiting for you
to step it up to her level.
So I don't have
to wait any longer
because, Chloe, you've slipped
down to that level.
So Chloe has to be bad
for Paige to get a dance?
ABBY LEE: No.
KELLY (VOICEOVER): Abby has
to totally ruin the moment
and be like, Paige,
you haven't had a duet with Chloe
because you don't dance as good as Chloe.
But now that Chloe isn't dancing so well,
you can have a duet with her.
The name of your duet
is "Broadway Blondes."
The style of your routine is jazz.
Ladies, I'm going
to ask you to spread apart.
We're going to get started
on the group routine.
Moms, you're dismissed.
Go head upstairs.
Chloe's back on the Pyramid.
Who would have ever thought I'd be
excited to be on the Pyramid.
CHRISTI (VOICEOVER):
This season has really been rough
on the girls between suspensions,
you know, strikes, injuries.
- Oh, my gosh.
- It's taken 12 weeks
to get those seven little girls back
on that Pyramid.
- KELLY: Wow.
- Really?
It is so great
to have the team together.
- It's nice to see Nia at the top.
- Yeah.
I'm really excited about that.
That was a surprise.
ABBY LEE: Nia, come here.
I want you to demonstrate
this for everyone--
inverted knee and a développé,
and you can step to upstage.
Did you see her face
when she said Rosa Parks?
I know.
Nia was beaming.
And then she goes, make no assumptions.
Like, really?
Let's give it to one of the blondes.
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): I'm shocked.
She doesn't know
who's going to play Rosa Parks.
Well, Rosa Parks
is standing right in front of you.
JILL: No, she has to get the part.
CHRISTI: Oh, my God.
Because if not,
can you imagine if she was like,
Chloe, you're going to be Rosa Parks?
Like, how could you make
Chloe look like Rosa Parks
without being too controversial?
Oh, boy. Wah.
I don't know
what Abby's thinking.
I mean, clearly, Nia should
be the one to play Rosa Parks.
Anything else would be inappropriate.
[mellow music]
Mackenzie?
Do you know what being benched is?
Being benched means that
either you have an injury or, like--
ABBY LEE: I'm the referee,
and I benched you.
I told you I wanted you
to stay off of that foot.
You were hopping all over the place.
And look, you're still all taped up.
Miss Abby benches me
because last week
she thinks that I was doing
cartwheels on my other foot,
but I wasn't.
[music - maniac, "is she black"]
(SINGING) One dream leads to another--
Walk up on that step and freeze!
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
This Rosa Parks routine
is extremely technical,
and the girls are so sloppy.
The timing was really off.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): I can't
get through more than 5 seconds
without stopping somebody
to correct something
they should already know!
Both of you are off the music.
We just told Brooke
and Paige the same thing.
These girls are rehearsing like
they're seventh-place dancers--
--not national champions.
And I think their mothers are to blame.
She can't let you walk out of there
feeling good about yourself.
She could ruin anything.
Holly is angry
about the Rosa Parks situation.
Kelly is mad about the duet.
I don't even want my kid to do it.
JILL: Why?
Because she pretty much said my kid sucks.
That's why she never had one.
Oh, Kelly, please don't take
that away from them.
Well, no, thanks. I'll pass.
Give it to somebody else.
Shut up.
They've waited forever.
Quit stealing their joy.
That's Abby's job.
If you guys would have walked in here,
done what we started earlier perfectly,
we would be going on right now,
but we can't do that
because you don't really care!
Who's she yelling at?
We're doing a routine about Rosa Parks!
She cared!
She stood up for it!
She was arrested!
She went to jail for something
she was passionate about.
You don't care if you win or not.
You care how many Instagram
things you get.
I'm sick of the negativity.
It spreads like wildfire to these girls,
and I'm the one left
to pick up the pieces.
And I've had it.
[upbeat music]
Parents, if you would just
stand over here please.
Let's go back to the last competition.
Let's give ourselves a round of applause.
[applause]
Last time we saw Abby, we won.
We won big time,
and, boy, did it feel good.
But my question to you is was it luck?
We need to stay on top of things.
We need to be at our best,
better than our best, every time.
So we won.
All is good.
We're going to win again
when we go to competition.
I've always known that my boys
are better dancers than Abby's girls,
and now Abby knows it, too.
I'd like to talk about the Pyramid.
Brandon, I think that
you've got so much to give.
You've got this ultimate dazzling smile,
but I need to see your dancing
dazzle as much as your smile.
Nick, do you know how many
dancers in the country
want this opportunity?
And we came after you.
Gino, you are like
the most fabulous turner.
Don't let your perfectionism
get in the way
so that it becomes a negative, OK?
All right, so that leaves us
to the top of the Pyramid.
- Jalen.
- [applause]
Yeah.
So we are going to do a dance
that's called "Candy Apple Style,"
and it is a takeoff
of the "Gangnam Style."
- Yeah!
- CATHY: Yeah!
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Our group number,
it's highlighting Jalen
with all of his hip hop skills
and his crazy moves that he does.
I think this is gonna knock Abby Lee
right off of her high--
no, she doesn't wear high heels.
It's going to knock her socks off.
And then, let's see, we still
have to talk about our soloist.
Jalen, you will be doing
a solo this week, OK?
- RICK: Yeah!
- So-- yes.
[applause]
So you have an opportunity
to knock it out of the park.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Abby is going
to be completely knocked off
her A-game when she sees Jalen.
He has hip hop moves that no one has seen,
and he's gonna pull all of those
out of his little bag of tricks.
You guys are just it for me.
You're my it boys.
We got to have a clean sweep this week.
[dramatic music]
[mellow music]
ABBY LEE: Hello.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
I'm meeting somebody here.
She doesn't really
dress right for her body.
When Holly walks into a room,
she should make a statement,
but she's not making
a very good statement.
She has the badonkadonk, you know?
- Yeah. And she has the thighs.
- Well, I got a little bit of that, too.
And she had, like, big bunions.
And she wears these short skirts
and these open-toed shoes.
And you're like, oh, my gosh.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
I'm going to take her
on a little shopping spree.
I want to revive her look.
I'm going to make her fabulous.
Oh!
Hi.
This is a cute store.
- What's Jill doing here?
- Hi.
She invited me for moral support.
You look very nice.
Jill, this isn't about you.
I know.
It's about Holly.
I came to help.
Now, see, you finally
get something special.
- HOLLY: I know.
- It's going to pay off for Nia.
But now we can't discuss Nia
- because you brought another mom.
- Well, you can discuss Nia.
- I won't-- I won't listen.
- ABBY LEE: No. No.
- I won't say a word.
- ABBY LEE: No.
When Holly told me that Abby
was going to take her shopping,
I really wanted to be there.
I know that the role
of Rosa Parks
hasn't been assigned
to any of the dancers yet,
and I really want to take this
opportunity to speak with Abby
and find out what she's looking for.
If she's not going to cast Nia,
it might as well be Kendall.
You have to look like you know
how to dress your body.
I think I know how to dress myself.
Come with me.
I'll show you the difference.
[electronic dance music]
- All of this.
- STORE CLERK: OK.
The knees, the calves, the ankles--
cover it up.
Well, these are zeroes.
Let's move away from here.
JILL: I found some stuff.
How about when two adults
are speaking, excuse me.
Excuse me, I found you some--
ABBY LEE: Let's get in the
dressing room, and let's start.
Look how pretty this will be on your skin.
ABBY LEE: Jill, you're not wanted!
Normally, Abby's not the type of person
I would take fashion advice from,
but I want Nia
to be considered for Rosa Parks.
And if it makes Abby happy
to dress me up for a little bit,
I'll go right along with it.
Abby, yesterday,
Nia said that you weren't sure
who was still doing
the Rosa Parks dance?
No.
And, you know, I keep getting thrown
under the bus for typecasting.
Holly has forever
been accusing me of typecasting.
--a different fit.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): You'd think
Holly would want me to give her
the part because she deserves it,
and that's exactly
what I'm going to do.
But I have to make Nia earn this role,
and that is going
to make her a better dancer.
So Abby, what's the status
with Rosa Parks?
Have you seen the number
long enough to figure out
who's going to play Rosa Parks?
ABBY LEE: I just started the number.
I didn't even get the props
and the [inaudible] yet.
JILL: I know.
Well, that's why I ask what the status is.
What are you thinking about it?
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): I can't
believe Jill's lobbying
for her daughter
to take this part away from Nia.
Jill, I brought you along
to kind of be a buffer,
not to absorb opportunities
for your child to get ahead.
I don't know.
I mean, you know, come on.
Maddie's the strongest dancer,
so I don't know if I'm going
to use her for Rosa Parks
and go against type.
I have no idea.
I know you want
Kendall to work on her face.
And if that's what you want,
- then I need to get that for Kendall.
- ABBY LEE: You know what, Jill?
If she gets it,
she's going to get it on her own.
Excuse me, Jill.
I'm going to get back to her.
- OK, OK.
- That Jill is just unbelievable.
She is shoving her kid down my throat.
I want you out of the store.
You're not seeing what I'm buying.
Go. Poof.
Be gone.
[lullaby music]
[mooing]
CATHY: Hey, honey.
Come on in.
I know Mommy's always busy
with the boys and everything,
and I don't get to do,
like, privates with you,
so this is a good opportunity
that I've got some time off.
I really miss Vivi
being on my team
now that I have all boys, but I'm trying
to sneak in every opportunity
I can to work with her.
Nothing makes me happier
than watching my baby dance.
So what I wanted to work on today
was some ballet technique
and stretches, OK?
So let's stand at the bar.
Right hand on the bar.
Pull your belly in.
Press your derriére down.
And prepare your arm.
Demi and straighten and relevé.
Now, I want you to keep
your shoulders down.
Pull your knees up. Good.
Keep your tummy tucked.
Keep the tummy tucked in.
Press down through derriére.
And lift, hold, hold.
Come on. Hold on. Hold on.
Squeeze your derriére.
Nice job.
Don't roll on those feet.
Keep the little toes on the ground.
Vivi is at this age
where she is growing up so fast,
and I just don't want
to miss anything.
I'm trying my hardest to make sure
that I have time for her,
because I don't want
to blink my eyes
and have my baby
all grown up.
I have to get back to the boys.
- Mm-hmm.
- OK?
And I snuck away so I could spend
a couple of minutes with you.
OK.
Love you, honey.
[electronic dance music]
Kendall, you have this gorgeous face.
And you get on stage,
and there's nothing happening.
You try so hard. It's like--
I get a little sass.
I get a little ah.
And then you hit the turns,
and you're like this.
And your mouth is open,
and flies are going to go
in there someday and nest.
I'm not sure Kendall will ever
be ready to play Rosa Parks,
but she must use her face in her solo.
All right, face that way.
Shock, surprise.
Really? Really?
You're running around
with your hands like this?
No.
Surprise.
KENDALL (VOICEOVER):
I feel like Abby's giving me
my own private lesson
with my facial expressions.
Shock.
1, 2, 3.
KENDALL (VOICEOVER):
It's really weird for Abby
to pick me out of everybody
to work on something
that I need to improve.
Evil.
No, that's not evil.
That's silly. Evil.
I really want to prove
to Miss Abby
that I can do my facial expressions
just as she taught me.
Now, let's do happy.
Sad. Pouting.
See, I'm good at it.
[laughs]
When we do the dance,
and I teach you your lesson,
I want to see every one of those faces.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
If Kendall's not going to act out
the emotion during her solo,
then she's not going to beat Cathy,
and I'm finished giving her solos.
Well, you know, what's up with the duet?
Are we ever going to learn the duet?
- Who knows?
- Where's Kendall?
- I don't know where Kendall is.
- So over it.
Where was Kendall?
Was everything OK?
She was sitting
in the dressing room with Abby.
They were going over-- she was
going over facial expressions.
- HOLLY: Oh.
- For this?
No, I'm assuming for her solo,
but I wasn't there.
Wow. What do you got to do to get,
like, facial expressions?
Our kids don't even have choreography.
[laughs]
Jill is so ridiculous.
She's always sneaking
around behind our backs,
trying to get Kendall ahead.
I mean, we have so much
going on this week.
I really don't think Abby
should be wasting her time
working on Kendall's faces
in a mirror.
The way that Abby's telling
the story, it's like--
it gets kind of lost in translation.
You know how Abby starts with a theme,
and then it develops,
and then it's kind of not
like what she initially told you
it's going to be about?
I don't even know
who's playing Rosa Parks.
Every time I look at you, Nia,
because you're the obvious choice,
your feet are, like, hooves.
You're flexing your foot,
and you're clenching your toes.
We're going to do an epic routine
about a woman who changed history.
I honestly want Nia to be good enough
to play the role of Rosa Parks,
but I don't know if she is.
This one over here was over there
trying to pitch her daughter
to Abby as being Rosa Parks.
When Holly told me that
Jill invited herself to go shopping
with Holly and Abby,
it didn't surprise me at all.
I knew that this was Jill's way
of being sneaky
and her way of talking to Abby,
trying to get Kendall to leave.
You actually asked her for that part.
No.
What-- no.
- I said--
- CHRISTI: [laughs]
--it would be a good part
for Kendall because she needs
to work on her acting and her face.
I really think
you're, like, delusional
now, Jill--
JILL: No, I didn't say give it to Kendall.
--that you think that
that's a good part for her.
I don't understand why these
moms are so upset over this.
Their kids get lead roles all the time.
Kendall does not.
Kendall always gets overlooked.
Here's an opportunity
for my child to have a lead role,
and it's driving them crazy.
I'm the only one who gets
in trouble for wanting something
- for my child.
- Well, because none of us do crazy
- stuff like you do to get the kid--
- What did I do crazy?
You asked Abby
if Kendall could be Rosa Parks!
[dramatic music]
I'm the only one who gets in trouble
for wanting something.
You asked Abby
if Kendall could be Rosa Parks!
- That's a little crazy.
- No, I didn't.
You weren't there.
Kendall never had a special part, people.
I think every one of your kids has.
Jill will do anything
for a special part,
even if it means
that Kendall is Rosa Parks.
Really?
If anybody is Rosa Parks but Nia,
I'm not watching the dance.
And I don't think that anyone
should be Rosa Parks but Nia.
Why these moms are coming down
on me so hard,
I can't stand it.
We think you should go down
and say, you know what?
I think I was mistaken.
I don't think that this would
be a good part for Kendall.
I think Nia fits this role.
Just act stupid and be like,
I thought Rosa Parks
was somebody different.
CHRISTI: [laughs]
- I thought she was--
- I thought she was an immigrant.
--a tall, thin white girl
with brown hair and brown eyes.
CHRISTI: [laughs]
Abby, do you have a minute?
I just need to let you know
that Christi and Kelly are going berserk
that they think Kendall
is playing Rosa Parks.
Oh, wait. Let me just say for the record,
she just threw all of us under the bus.
The moms said Kendall can't be Rosa Parks.
What do you think?
Nia needs
to think she has competition.
I can't just hand it to her on a platter.
Healthy competition
is good for every dancer,
but leave it to the moms
to get involved and mess it all up.
- ABBY LEE: But why is that--
- It is probably--
ABBY LEE: --bimbo running this studio?
It would make perfect sense
for Nia to play Rosa Parks.
They badgered me and badgered me until I--
- And you came down.
- I did, because I have to--
So you just took your kid
and put her on the back burner for--
- JILL: Well--
- --somebody else.
Hmm.
Kendall's never had special parts,
so this might be the last one
the poor kid ever gets.
And here I am letting these moms badger me
into taking it away from her.
I can't win, really.
Kendall? Your mother just took you out
of the running for Rosa Parks.
Nia, you will be playing
the part of Rosa Parks.
This is a huge lead role,
so you better make me proud.
I'm not sure what caused Abby
not to give Nia the part
of Rosa Parks from day 1,
but I'm glad Nia has it now.
[electronic dance music]
ABBY LEE: Hey, Kelly!
Yes?
Kelly has been so negative since
I assigned Paige a duet with Chloe.
Paige has a duet.
It's hard. It's difficult.
And I want her to embrace that.
And I want her to do it.
I need Kelly to be supportive of Paige,
not to sabotage your own kid
with her negativity.
You give her the duet,
and it's all negative.
So it's like, Chloe sucks, just like you,
so you're getting a duet,
but go out there and do it well.
Well, I think she needs to come in there
and try to prove me wrong.
- OK. And I hope she does.
- Be tougher, be stronger.
- I hope she does, too.
- I hope she does.
[electronic dance music]
All right, girls, this is it.
Show me what you've got.
Oh, look, the duet.
- HOLLY: Yay.
- Oh, good.
I don't know
if I want Paige to do the duet.
I think Abby's setting her up for failure,
and I don't want to put
my kid through that.
[MUSIC - MELODY
SWEETS, "UP ALL NIGHT"]
"Broadway Blondes"
is a sassy, hot jazz number.
It accentuates the beautiful
long lines and legs
on Paige and Chloe.
[groans] That's horrible.
That's four stars
plié on the left leg!
I want them to dance well.
I want them to do good.
I just want it to be
a happy thing for those two.
I think you're capable
of doing more things together.
You need to be in sync.
You need to mirror each other.
I think it could be great.
I don't think it's great yet.
I need Paige
to really pay attention
to the choreography if she's gonna be
any match for Chloe's technique.
All right, Chloe, you're dismissed.
Paige, I want to talk to you for a second.
Oh, God.
KELLY (VOICEOVER): If Abby
yells at my kid
about this duet,
I am pulling it.
I'm not letting Abby
treat my kid this way.
Paige, you have it all.
You're tall. You're lean.
You're gorgeous.
But you don't go through A and B and C
to get to D.
You think you can just skip over it.
I know I'm tough on Paige,
but that's my job.
I need to correct her mistakes
and make her a better dancer.
It's Kelly's job as the mom
to build her daughter up
with confidence and be her cheerleader,
but Kelly is not doing it.
So now it's my job.
If you want
to be better than Chloe
and you want to be better than
Maddie and better than Kendall
and better than your sister,
you have to work more.
I think this is very good
that Abby's talking to Paige like this.
She should do this more often.
If you don't like what I have to say,
you have two options.
You either quit,
and I'll never see you again,
or you come back in here,
and you prove me wrong.
Make me eat crow.
All right, go.
Give me a hug.
See ya.
I don't think Paige knows
what eat crow means.
I'll explain that to her though,
because I'd like to have her make--
- CHRISTI: I'd like to force--
- Abby eat crow
and a little more than that.
- Crow with a little [bleep] on top?
- Exactly.
[laughter]
ABBY LEE: Come on, Maddie.
Let's do it--
Breaking Down the Wall.
Are you going to break down the wall?
Or is the wall going to be nice
and strong, and you're, like--
it's going to throw you against the wall,
and you're like splat.
Maddie's dance this week
is called "Breaking Down Walls."
It's a contemporary piece,
and it's just saying, you know,
breaking down the walls.
I'm trying to get back to first place.
You need to use your stomach
on your jumps!
Back leg higher, straighter!
MELISSA (VOICEOVER): Each week,
I think Maddie's choreography
gets better and better.
This dance this week is so difficult.
I'm really excited to see it on stage.
I have to show you the cutest thing.
This is so cute.
Mackenzie, like, locks
herself in her bedroom.
I went on her computer.
So Mackenzie's been doing
all these tutorials,
and it's so cute.
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): Melissa
is hilarious sometimes.
We all know that Melissa thinks
Maddie's the best dancer,
and she can't help bragging
about it to anyone who cares.
But who knew that Mackenzie
was the star makeup artist?
HOLLY: Where'd she get
the idea to do that?
MELISSA: I don't know.
So she not only did the tutorial,
filmed herself,
had her materials,
and then she actually put it up
on the internet? Boy.
So Melissa, you're telling me
you let her in a room by herself,
and you don't know
what she's doing behind a locked door?
But, you know, she figured
out how to get my credit card
- number to do iTunes.
- Oh--
It's hard for Mackenzie
sometimes to be in Maddie's shadow.
And I'm glad for her
because she's not dancing,
so it's really nice that she's, like,
the little makeup star this week.
Big plié, fourth arabesque!
Push!
Cross in front. Soutenu.
Contract.
[inaudible] tendu.
And easy, easy, easy.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): Maddie
is nailing the technique in this routine,
but I have to make sure that she's
also nailing the emotional execution.
The wall crumbles.
And now, suddenly,
you realize that you broke it down,
and you're leaving,
and you're on your way.
And you got to say goodbye to her
and Mackenzie and everybody else.
Huh?
ABBY LEE: You know, when
you're headed to stardom,
you can't take along the whole group.
All right?
It's better without them.
OK, thank you.
All right. This is Nia, who is now
playing the role of Rosa Parks.
- Thank you.
- You know, 'cause Jill gave it up.
[groans] Abby is never going
to let me live this down,
and neither will those moms.
- This is pretty.
- Mm-hmm.
- These are cute.
- You want to set that on?
And we'll just see.
I like the big hat.
CHRISTI: I think that that would
be a good church hat for you,
- Dr. Holly.
- I was thinking about that.
- [inaudible]
- Can I have an amen?
ALL: Amen!
Ladies, get home and get packed.
Tomorrow morning,
I want to see the girls here.
They have to run all these numbers
before they get on that bus.
- All right? Go, go, go, go.
- Thank you.
ALL: Thank you.
[electronic dance music]
ANTHONY: Foom, foom.
Fa, fa, foom.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Our group number
is called "Candy Apple Style."
It's a K-pop number,
and there's a lot of funky jazz.
But go up, even like a foom, boom.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Anthony Burrell
is an in-demand choreographer.
He has worked with such entertainers
as Jay-Z and Beyonce.
We are incredibly lucky to have him
help us go against the ALDC team.
5, 6, 7, 8.
Bop, bop, bop.
Foom, boom.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Anthony
is quite an artiste,
and he wants to make sure
that we all know that.
Fwoom! Fwoom! Fwoom!
Fwoom.
And that's the energy
that I'm missing from you guys.
You guys got all these amazing tricks,
but you have no pop.
He is extremely hard
on the boys.
Stop punching that foot like that.
Point it!
Point it all the way.
Foom. Yes. Point it.
Stretch that knee.
That's how you stretch your foot.
Don't sit on top of it, clenching it.
Put your hands down.
Come again.
Improv again.
Don't baby these guys. They're boys.
- Hey!
- They need men in their life.
- They need men.
- Do you like affection?
- I like affection, but--
- OK, then!
- Outside of the studio.
ANTHONY (VOICEOVER):
Cathy is easy on those guys.
She treats them like they're little girls,
and there's no space for that.
Tell them to do 25 push-ups, you know?
We can't have our boys
as dainty as the girls
on the dance floor.
I don't want you babying them.
That doesn't happen in my studio
when I'm with boys.
- It just doesn't happen.
- Well, see.
You just said a mouthful, darling--
in your studio.
- We're in my studio.
- OK, and exactly.
Since it's your studio,
did you want to do this?
I'm absolutely not the type of person
that will back down from Cathy.
Whenever I step in the studio, I don't
care if this is your studio, your house.
You invite me here, this is my room.
I can't choreograph
with you sitting over here,
- over my shoulder like this.
- I'm not sitting over your shoulder.
Now, I could be sitting on your lap.
Would you like that?
- You figure the combination out.
- CATHY: OK, fine.
Go count to 10.
Maybe take 10 dance classes.
[dramatic music]
Don't baby these guys.
They're boys.
- Go count to 10.
- Maybe take 10 dance classes.
[dramatic music]
This lady is tripping, man.
I don't need a watchdog
over my back, you know,
when I'm being creative,
and I can't work like this. I just can't.
That's why she always
gets slaughtered by Abby.
She's a handful, you know?
She's very opinionated.
She has her hand in all the pots.
I do know that
she comes off a little strong,
and then she will listen to reason.
ANTHONY (VOICEOVER): But let
me just chill off a little bit,
just because this is her house,
this is her school.
- Thanks, man.
- It's good though, man.
ANTHONY (VOICEOVER): Yeah,
she's definitely a handful,
but, you know, I respect her, you know?
And I respect what she does.
- You feeling better? Good.
- Mm-hmm.
[new age dance music]
ABBY LEE: This is it.
You're getting on a bus.
You're going to Cincinnati,
and you're gonna see
your old dancing teacher there--
the one your mother thought
was better than me.
Cathy does not get any credit for Kendall.
I don't care.
She taught her nothing.
You're going to get out there
and dance against her kids.
Don't lose.
[MUSIC - WIZARDZ OF OZ, "LOOK
WHO'S KILLING NOW"]
(SINGING) Hey, spooky, toothy, supa loopy.
You're super duper bad
like you're out of a movie.
There's a lot of pressure on Kendall
to win this week.
(SINGING) Alarms ring.
He's in the building.
ABBY LEE: Woo! More energy! Face!
Face!
That gorgeous face is the key
to scoring high with the judges.
Face! Face! Face! Face!
Come on!
Get away from that mirror. Breathe!
Breathe! Breathe!
Face is bad.
Bad, bad, bad!
Do something with that face!
Go. Sit in front of that mirror,
and work on those faces.
Miss Abby really wants
to focus on my face,
and I agree with her
because I need some work. [laughs]
Happy.
Excited.
Mad.
Evil.
It's really funny
doing facial expressions with Kendall.
Scared. [gasps]
I'm like Miss Abby,
and I'm, like, telling her what to do.
Excited.
[gasps]
CHLOE (VOICEOVER): After a while,
I think we were just making up faces.
We were having so much fun,
and we didn't want to stop.
NIA: Do what Miss Abby does best.
[mellow music]
[mooing]
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Since we beat Abby,
we have had so much local support.
We're practically famous around town.
[cheering]
So I thought that it was about time
to give the outside
of our studio a facelift.
And today is the day
that we're showing it off.
Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to Candy Apples.
Cathy, it is my privilege and honor
to present you with this plaque
commemorating your victory
over Abby Lee's Dance Studio.
CATHY: Oh, thank you so much.
Today is Candy Apples Day.
I would like to make every day
Candy Apples Day.
Do you agree?
[cheering]
Viv, do the dance!
- Do the dance, Viv!
- Yeah!
[cheering]
CATHY: I'd love for you to do the honors.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): We are winners,
and now our studio looks like
a place where winners dance.
All right, guys.
We're open for business.
Let's go!
ABBY LEE: All right, Maddie, come on.
The name of the song
is "Breaking Down the Wall."
That's what I need to see you do.
Don't get caught in that
[inaudible] Get out there.
Nice.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
This routine is exquisite.
It shows that Maddie truly is a star,
and I'm going to do everything
I can to make sure
she reaches her full potential.
Come on! These are the points!
Come on! Come on!
Hold onto it. Hold onto it.
Press down!
Longer knees!
There, you go. Nice.
And beating Cathy
is just the cherry on top.
You're going up against boys.
You know you can win.
You've done it already.
Did you see that Cathy redecorated?
- She got a facelift at the Candy Apples.
- JILL: No.
From what I gather on the internet,
it seems that
Cathy has painted
the exterior of her studio.
MELISSA: It's all the money she's making.
- They look like big tomatoes.
- Let me see. I got to look.
- Maybe--
- And what're those deer jumping out?
Everything Cathy touches turns tacky.
She has these big red tomatoes
painted on her wall.
The dancers look like they have
deer antlers coming out of their heads.
I would like to know
how she spelled Candy Apple,
because she had it Apple's,
like the apple owned the studio.
Cathy probably thinks
she's so high class
- because she painted her building.
- HOLLY: [laughs]
[upbeat music]
You're about Jalen's size.
In coming with me here today,
I want you to be my model.
- Mm-hmm.
- CATHY: Can you do that for me?
I have to do some shopping
for Jalen's solo costume,
and I thought that I could spend
some one-on-one time with Vivi.
Because Jalen moves on his
head and that sort of stuff,
I need to see if the costumes
are going to move.
So can you, like, break
that out on the floor for me
at any moment?
Let's start out with the police uniform.
Do you think that you can try this on?
[electronic dance music]
Oh.
Oh!
(SINGING) Oh, do we know the muffin man?
What the heck is this doing?
Oh, I see.
Maybe he could be, like,
a motorcycle person.
- It's short.
- CATHY: Bam!
And pose.
It's a bit long.
Push it, and throw it.
That was good, honey!
Do you think that he would look
like he's from Wall Street?
VIVI: Yeah.
Do you know what Wall Street is?
- VIVI: No.
- No, OK.
Yeah, it was a movie, honey.
It was a movie.
Just let me see what a couple
of these things look like.
You make, without a doubt,
the cutest cowboy to rob a bank.
All right.
Well, I think that we've got what we need.
Vivi, hurry up, honey.
Let's get your clothes on.
VIVI: OK.
[electronic dance music]
I have costumes for Chloe and Paige,
your duet costumes.
- Woo!
- Oh, I see ruffles.
Now you're going
to wear black fishnet tights,
black jazz shoes.
Oh, I thought they were Broadway.
- No.
- KELLY: No, girl.
Well, the name of the dance
is "Broadway Blondes."
- Yeah.
- There's not fabric on those, Abby.
- KELLY: All right, go try it on.
- Let's see.
- Oh, go ahead.
KELLY (VOICEOVER): These
costumes are ridiculous.
They're more for Vegas than Broadway.
ALL: Woo!
They are gorgeous!
Rose between two thorns.
They're more for Vegas
than Broadway.
KELLY: Are you sure
the judges aren't going to think
these are too skimpy
for their age?
No.
- Do you guys like the costumes?
- Yes.
CHRISTI (VOICEOVER): The
duet costume is pushing it.
But if I go to Abby and complain,
she's going to take the duet
away from Chloe and Paige.
I don't know if I want them wearing
those costumes in front of the boys.
I guess I'll just look at these costumes
and imagine that it's just a swimsuit
and they're at the pool.
Come on, girls. Let's get back in there.
Let's go. Let's go.
CATHY: You know what?
We're on borrowed time here,
so we need you to get moving.
I do this with Vivi every morning.
I wonder if it's possible to just
build this shirt
on the front of this shirt.
The name of Jalen's routine
is "Working 9 to 5."
And he is going to portray
three different professions.
He's incorporating his dance skills,
along with movable takeoff props.
CATHY: Do it again.
See if that was luck.
Oh.
And between
the intricate costume changes
and Anthony's tough way of teaching,
I hope that Jalen can learn this routine.
Think timing. You going to toss.
Foom.
So look, first of all,
you got to look where you throwing
so you can see, foom, foom, fa,
so you can know the timing,
where it was going.
See where it's going.
Foom, fa. Foom, foom.
- CATHY: No.
- Nix it. Nix it.
- I have a really good idea.
- ANTHONY: What's that?
From this position, Jalen,
since you have the rag in your hand--
- is this the transition position?
- Yeah.
Why don't you go from here,
spin into a ninja, drop,
then you can come up changing?
It's kind of disrespectful
to a choreographer
when there's an outside voice
harboring over your shoulder.
But you could
almost just leave that on the floor
when you get up from your ninja,
and just roll up, and come forward.
His father doesn't have the experience
that I have of a stage performance.
[laughter]
[dramatic music]
ABBY LEE: Come on, girls!
We're ready to go.
I'm questioning whether I ever should
have given Chloe and Paige a duet.
Paige is the one
who begged me for this duet.
And I figured
since Chloe wasn't at her peak,
this would be the perfect time
to bring these two girls together.
But right now, Paige is not cutting it,
and I know it's because
of Kelly's bad attitude.
[MUSIC - MELODY
SWEETS, "UP ALL NIGHT"]
Come on!
Match your faces!
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): I'm hoping the
Paige and Chloe can dance in sync.
Because if two dancers
doing a duet aren't in sync,
it's a disaster.
Now, these girls really need to focus,
especially Paige.
2, 3, 4, and exit.
KELLY: Paige tried
her duet costume on last night.
They're wearing fishnets,
which makes it even worse.
[laughs]
And how about the music?
This doesn't sound Broadway Blondie.
I know Kelly is really struggling
with the duet.
The costumes are skimpy.
Yes, the music is racy.
But we really just have
to make the best of it
if we want our girls
to have the chance to be featured.
CHRISTI: Do you like the duet?
I don't want it if that's the attitude
she's going to have towards it.
You guys wouldn't have
liked it if she presented it
to your kids that way either.
I thought she was mean to Chloe, too.
You know, Kel,
you might be my friend,
but you better not try
to take this away from Chloe.
She needs this.
I mean, she needs a chance to shine.
Just got to go with it.
[rooster crows, cows mooing]
[cows mooing]
So I tend to think that, you know,
they like to really come out
and impress the girls.
So let's let them do it.
It's fun to perform
in front of your peers,
so I asked the girls if they wouldn't mind
being a live audience
for the group number of the boys.
[MUSIC - ANALOGUE
REVOLUTION, "HIJK POP"]
ANTHONY: Come on! You're late!
3, 4, 5, 6!
Turn and 1, 2! Turn!
[clapping]
Bop, bop.
Jalen, what are you doing, man?
You missed your cue.
Make it happen.
This is showtime.
You have an audience here.
Jalen, why did you miss your cue?
Jalen? Jalen?
ANTHONY: It's because
you don't pay attention in rehearsal.
That's why! This is what happens.
You have to take precaution.
If it happens on stage,
what are you going to do?
I missed my cue because of what?
Somebody was there? Come out.
Do your thing! It doesn't matter.
Jalen missed his cue,
and that is not good.
He is the star of this routine,
and we need to have him nail this.
ANTHONY: I'm only screaming at
you because I care, you know?
So you can get your moment, man.
I'm depending on you
to make this-- that section pop.
I want you to be the best
that you can be. Yeah?
RICK (VOICEOVER): Jalen is my child.
And then for someone
to yell at him in that manner,
I would usually get up
and take control of the situation.
It's hard for me to stand by
and watch Anthony
be so hard on the boys,
especially Jalen.
I just hope that they can shake
this performance off
and get out any mistakes now
so that they can be perfect for tomorrow.
[electronic dance music]
[girls giggling]
The little line--
- NIA: The line whenever you blink
- Open your eyes.
I'm in the den,
and I'm doing all the girls' makeup
because I'm really bored.
[laughs]
- CHLOE: It tickles.
- So what?
Oh. [laughs]
That got in my mouth.
MACKENZIE: That doesn't look right.
[laughs]
Hey, hey! Woo!
Look at you.
Cool.
- What's going on?
- Nothing.
Nothing?
You were doing nothing?
You're doing makeup? Well, that's OK.
What's wrong with doing makeup?
I'm going to sit down
because I don't like this lipstick
I have one, so hit me up.
[laughter]
Mackenzie is benched this week,
but that doesn't mean
I can't put her to work.
- Is that better?
- Mm-hmm.
- That's better.
- Is it better?
Since you like doing makeup so much,
you can be in charge of the makeup
this weekend.
You're going to do the whole group.
And guess who you're going to start with?
- Maddie.
- MACKENZIE: Oh!
- No, she wouldn't let me do her makeup.
- Is it bad?
Well, she's not in charge.
I'm in charge, and I say you're doing it.
I'm really nervous
that I might mess up the makeup.
I don't want Miss Abby to yell at me.
- (SINGING) Da, da.
- KELLY: We have hats.
Not only is the Rosa Parks piece
artistry in motion,
but they also have a lot
of props to deal with.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
They have hats and bus seats,
and there's not a lot of time
to master them.
ABBY LEE: Brooke, your feet
can't come apart and be a mess.
You need to really pull up
through your spine
and tuck your head under.
Don't sickle your feet, Brooke!
Wing them. Timing!
The foot is flexed there!
I want this to be one of those
big award-winning numbers,
and these girls are not ready to compete.
And we're leaving in a few minutes.
The Abby Lee Dance Company
needs a victory.
We need to beat Cathy.
Nia, you are portraying Rosa Parks,
a great American hero.
Are you going to tell the story.
Are you going to be a strong woman?
Are you going to change history
on the stage?
[dramatic music]
Now, listen, girls.
Please, stop.
Take the earplugs out.
Pay attention.
We are going to Ohio,
and you know what that means.
I do not want...to lose to Cathy.
The last time we faced Cathy, she beat us,
and that can't ever happen again.
Now, I've tried really hard
to create better team unity,
and this team needs to lead us to victory.
[upbeat music]
- HOLLY: Nia!
- NIA: Yeah?
You want to come up and tell us
what you learned about
Rosa Parks from all your research?
Nia stayed up all night
making this poster of Rosa Parks.
HOLLY (VOICEOVER):
This is not just any role.
This is a role about a woman
who changed history
for me and for many others,
and I couldn't be prouder of Nia
to have the opportunity
to teach people about Rosa Parks.
She sat down on the bus,
and they asked her to move.
And she politely didn't say anything,
and she just sat there.
I'm proud of Nia.
She came in with this full-blown
poster about Rosa Parks.
I'm glad she's taking the role seriously.
Because if you're gonna win it,
you have to want it.
This is a little something that
when I saw it, I thought of you.
- Jill!
- Stop!
ABBY LEE: I know you
wanted Kendall to be Rosa.
I know you wanted me to just--
- No, I didn't.
- break those stereotypes--
- No.
- and go for it.
I want Kendall to have opportunities,
and you're giving them to her.
- And that's all I want.
- Oh.
- It's very nice.
- Look at this.
After Nia shares her poster with Abby,
Jill slides in and gives Abby a necklace.
This woman is ridiculous.
She's trying to bribe her with gifts?
She'll do whatever she can
to get her daughter ahead.
[electronic dance music]
- Hi.
- Nice to see you.
- Candy Apples. We're checking in.
- Nice to meet you.
All right.
Let's see.
[dramatic music]
Come on, girls. Let's go.
Let's go.
Oh, I feel the Earth move under my feet!
Ba, ba, ba, boom. Ba, ba, ba, boom.
Ba, ba, ba, boom.
We're here at Powerhouse Dance
Competition in Cincinnati, Ohio.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
And I am on a mission to win.
I just have to keep my blinders on
from any and all distraction.
Hey, boys!
We could be cocky.
We won last time.
Remember that.
- Hi, how are you?
- Hey.
Excuse me for just a moment.
- Hi.
- Don't touch me.
Oh, bodyguards.
After that last assault--
Cathy needs a bodyguard
like I need another psycho mom
at my dance studio.
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER):
She's the one that hit me.
I'm the one that should hire a bodyguard.
- I didn't even know the lid was off.
- You know what?
Because I didn't mean to do that either.
I want to thank you guys
for being beside me,
because you never know
when water's going to fly out
of their hands or a fist.
Who said they saw Cathy
with a bodyguard?
She does not have a bodyguard.
That's funny.
She's the one that comes up-- oh--
you know, with her insults
and then starts beating on you.
Oh, hey.
Water doesn't hurt me.
- Grow up!
- You grow up.
CHRISTI: If Cathy makes her--
if she makes herself feel good
- with having, like, two--
- That's a waste of money.
--rent-a-cops walk around-- like,
that's the only way Cathy
can get men to hang out with her.
Either bribe them to be on her team
or paid them to guard her.
Cathy needs bodyguards?
She's the one who accosts all of us.
I mean, Cathy has hit me twice,
thrown water on me,
thrown water on Abby,
beat Abby with a purse,
tried to beat Jill with a purse
and her water on her.
I think, if anything,
we need a bodyguard and a sponge.
Holly, what do you have on?
- Clothing.
- Let me see.
CHRISTI: Is this
an Abby-authorized outfit?
- ABBY LEE: No.
- It's red and black.
You could do better.
Holly, I'm trying
to pizzazz you up, all right?
- CHRISTI: Oh, Lord.
- (LAUGHING) Pizzazz.
How about if you take this?
Everything's in here.
And jump behind the dressing room
and get yourself changed.
Here I am getting a costume
from Abby,
just like the girls getting costumes,
and I have to try it on in the back
and come out and show off my costume.
- Ready for me?
- Yes!
[cheering]
I love it!
You're beautiful.
HOLLY: This is Abby's ensemble.
And this makes a statement though.
You walk in. I'm here.
Rosa Parks wouldn't walk in, like,
mm, meek and little. No.
CHRISTI: But what was it about Holly
that you didn't like,
that you felt you needed to change?
I gave Nia the part of Rosa Parks.
She's a star.
And now Holly looks
like a leading lady, too.
Mackenzie!
Come on over here.
I don't know
if all the moms heard or not.
You think they know
what your role is here,
what your job's going to be?
Yes.
Mackenzie is the official makeup artist
for the Abby Lee Dance Company.
She's going to do all the girls' makeup,
and the moms have no say in the matter.
Jill?
As soon as you get
that hair finished over there,
Mackenzie's going to start with Kendall.
So I want to see Mackenzie's work first.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
Kendall's first.
KELLY: (LAUGHING) Usually,
Maddie does Mackenzie's makeup.
- I know.
- Kenzie's not the makeup guru.
- (LAUGHING) Yeah.
JILL: Maddie is.
Well, she sure was the makeup guru
the other day. Weren't you?
So make sure the makeup
helps her facial expressions,
all righty?
All righty, let's go.
I don't think
Mackenzie is qualified to do makeup
on six girls right before competition.
Yeah, do one more a little bit darker.
That's great.
You did good.
Just a-- that's really dark, yeah.
MELISSA (VOICEOVER):
I'm excited that Mackenzie
gets a special job for the competition.
She's not dancing, so this
is something special for her to do.
OK, OK.
This one here.
Uh-huh.
[laughs]
I think I did a pretty good job.
It was hard, but I pulled it off.
Did you do Kendall?
I see her mother over
there wiping off your work.
No, I'm wiping off the lipstick
that ended up up here
by accident.
She looks great.
She did a great job.
She's lying.
OK, Mad.
KELLY: Oh, I love it.
CHRISTI: Oh, you look like Cinderella.
[gasps]
The girls look great,
and it's time to go out there and win.
I need my soloists to beat Cathy.
All right, let's do this.
Right now, it's time
for the intimidation face--
nose up, chin out, confidence.
- [audience applauding]
- [electronic dance music]
All right, let's do this. Come on.
Come on. Go, go.
Go, go, go. Go.
Unhappy faces
and unhappy face from her, as well.
OK.
Kendall has worked really hard
on her facial expressions this week,
and I hope she goes out there
and nails this number
to remind Abby
she should give her more solos.
ANNOUNCER 2: All right, here we go
in the Junior Small Group Division.
This is Kendall with "Look At Me Now."
- Woo!
- Go, Ken!
Go, Kendall!
- Woo!
- [applause]
[MUSIC - WIZARDZ OF OZ, "LOOK
WHO'S KILLING NOW"]
(SINGING) Hey, spooky, toothy, supa loopy.
You're super duper bad
like you're out of a movie.
You're walking around
with a collection of sharp things.
Alarms ring.
He's entered the building.
Woo!
Hey, killer.
I'm gonna stay alive.
You can't take me.
I'll make it through the night.
When it's over, I plan on walking out.
Hey, stupid.
Hey, look who's killing now.
Now, now, now, now, now, now.
Look who's killing,
killing, killing it now.
I'll take this sucker out. Woo!
Look who's killing,
killing, killing it now.
Hey, boy.
You're going down.
Look who's killing, killing, killing it.
All you ever seem to do
is massacre, massacre.
Everyday, you get
a little manicure, manicure.
Time to get yourself
another manager, manager,
'cause I'm killing it, killing it,
killing it now, now, now, now.
Now, now, now, now.
Now, now, now, now, now.
Look who's killing,
killing, killing it now.
I'll take this sucker out.
Look who's killing,
killing, killing it now.
Boy, you're going down.
Look who's killing,
killing, killing it now.
Straight legs!
Come on.
(SINGING) I'll take this sucker down.
Look who's killing, killing, killing it.
'Cause I'm killing it,
killing it, killing it.
[applause]
[cheering]
Good job, K!
ANNOUNCER 2: That was
Entry Number 22, Kendall
with "Look At Me Now."
JILL (VOICEOVER): Kendall looked great.
She's shining bright,
and she deserves that.
MELISSA (VOICEOVER): Maddie is under
a lot of pressure right now.
She hasn't gotten first place
in the last few weeks,
and she wants to please Miss Abby.
So this is big, big.
This has to be a win for her.
ANNOUNCER 2: All right.
The next in our Junior Solo Division,
we have Entry Number 34.
This is Maddie with
"Breaking Down Walls."
- Woo!
- Woo-hoo!
[applause]
(MOUTHING) I love you.
[MUSIC - CHIARA ANGELICOLA, "BERLIN"]
(SINGING) If miles
were only those of ants
and months could tick like seconds,
it wouldn't be that easy for me.
You wouldn't feel the rapture.
You wouldn't hear the battles,
awoken, exploding in your heart.
That's why I'm leaving.
I'm leaving.
Yes, I'm leaving Berlin.
The daunting cold winter
decided this for me.
It built the piles of snow
between our hearts.
That's why I'm leaving.
I'm leaving.
Yes, I'm leaving
Berlin.
Oh, yes, I'm leaving.
Yes, I'm leaving.
- Woo!
(SINGING) Berlin.
- MELISSA: Good job!
- Woo-hoo!
[applause]
[uplifting music]
[laughs] Look at what you did.
Did you see that?
Maddie has the makings of a star.
Already, she performs
like a seasoned professional.
Take that, Cathy.
Jalen's solo is unlike
any other routine at this competition
I just hope that he can
make his costume changes,
because with this performance
we can win.
ANNOUNCER 2: All right.
Up next in the Junior Solo Division,
we have Jalen with "Working 9 to 5."
[applause]
[MUSIC - DC SOULPLUSMIND FT BORN
I MUSIC, "ON THE GRIND"]
Woo!
Nice, Jalen!
(SINGING) If you know
like I know-- cuidado, cuidado.
New York, Chicago, DC,
Que Lago, Boston to Kingston.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Uh-oh.
Jalen couldn't get
the costume change done,
and he's off the music.
This is not good.
[dramatic music]
[MUSIC - DC SOULPLUSMIND FT BORN
I MUSIC, "ON THE GRIND"]
(SINGING) If you know
like I know-- cuidado, cuidado.
New York, Chicago, DC,
Que Lago, Boston to Kingston,
London to Kingdom.
Everywhere, all the time.
Even after all of the special time
that we made for Jalen
to rehearse the costume changes,
he still misses it.
(SINGING) London to Kingdom.
We everywhere, all the time,
all the time, on the grind.
- RICK: Hey!
- [applause]
[dramatic music]
Jay! You're good.
There was nothing wrong
with the handkerchief.
RICK: No.
You did everything perfectly.
What are you talking about?
I'm sure that he's taking
this slip-up really hard.
He needs to just move on
because he finished strong.
It's possible
that the judges won't even notice.
You still knocked it out the box
like a performer's supposed to do.
No one didn't know
that wasn't in your routine.
It is not your fault.
- Because I want to do good.
- Shh, listen. I know you do.
ANTHONY: You did!
- You didn't do good.
You did great.
Give me a hug.
It's OK.
It's all right.
[cheering]
CHRISTI: Yes!
Good job, girls.
- HOLLY: Hi.
- Woo, girls!
Hello.
Oh, my god.
That was so good.
Oh, my goodness.
Amazing.
How'd it feel?
- Good.
Good? Yes.
What was the lesson this week?
What did we need to improve?
ABBY LEE: Your face!
- Beautiful. Good job.
- Thank you. Thank you.
The Abby Lee Dance Company
started out strong.
Our solos were fabulous.
I just hope this momentum stays strong
for Chloe and Paige's duet.
CHRISTI: Woo!
ABBY LEE: Oh, wow.
They look fabulous.
God, I wish
I could wear something like that.
If it was up to me,
I wouldn't have Paige do this duet,
because I didn't like the way
that Abby presented it to her.
But I know Paige wants to do it,
so I just want Paige
to go out there and dance her best.
[upbeat music]
ANNOUNCER 2: All right.
Up next in the Junior Duet/Trio Division,
we have Paige and Chloe
with "Broadway Blondes."
[applause]
[MUSIC - MELODY
SWEETS, "UP ALL NIGHT"]
[applause]
[electronic dance music]
That was Entry Number 72, Paige and Chloe
with "Broadway Blondes."
Despite all the negativity
with this duet,
I thought that
Paige and Chloe went out there
and they danced amazing.
I thought they were together,
and they looked great.
If I were Jill, I would get so tired
of falling short of Maddie.
- I didn't have a dance, by the way.
- No, I know.
So I would always fall short of Maddie.
But if I were you, I'd really get tired
of my kid falling short of Maddie.
Your kid doesn't even dance.
- Well, you know what?
- So don't worry about anybody--
- But I'm not talking--
- JILL: --but yourself, Cathy.
You know what? You know what, mouth?
I'm not talking about my kid.
- I'm talking about your kid.
- Yeah, and that's rude.
And you're not rude?
Going around throwing water
on people's heads is--
- You started it.
- CATHY: --is completely protocol.
- Maybe if we throw a stick, she'll leave.
- CATHY: I don't need to move on.
Excuse me.
I'm not the one that fell down
the ugly tree
and got hit by every branch.
- Oh, la, la, la, la, la.
- Yeah?
- Look again, baby!
- CATHY: Oh, and Jill?
The next time you say
something about Vivi,
it's going to be your last time!
ABBY LEE: Think about
your own technique, your lines,
your feet, your legs.
Keep those knees
squeezed together, Maddie.
Contestants Number 88,
"Candy Apple Style."
ANTHONY: 1, 2, 3.
CATHY: Now, wait a minute.
My god, we're like bumbling idiots.
ABBY LEE: Finish your lines, girl.
You're like clodhoppers
with that foot banging on the ground.
Développé and tighten
the back of the knee.
2, 3, stop, 4, look, 5, 6, 7.
Ho, ha, ha, ha, ha!
Yay.
[clapping]
Rosa Parks changed history.
Thank goodness, in 2013,
we don't have segregation anymore.
Yes?
But we do have winners,
and we have losers.
It's all for a reason.
It's all a purpose, you know?
You guys are amazing talents,
you know, with amazing abilities.
So let's go and shine.
I got a quote from Alvin Ailey.
There's nothing to prove,
only to share. Cool?
- RICK: Yeah. Cool, yeah.
- Let's rock it.
Well said. Well said.
I'm begging you, don't be the kid
that screws this dance up. Do not.
HOLLY (VOICEOVER): I want Nia
to be present in the moment,
to understand that there are people
who made tremendous sacrifices
so she could have
an opportunity like this.
And I want Nia
to know that she can aspire
to do whatever she sets her mind to
and leave her own legacy.
I couldn't be more proud.
ABBY LEE: Come on!
[dramatic music]
ANTHONY (VOICEOVER): I think the guys
stand a great chance of winning--
their costume with their--
you know, with their performance.
It's four boys.
Competitions are for the little girls.
So come on.
These boys are going
to have those girls screaming.
ANNOUNCER 2: All right. Up next
in the Junior Small Group Division,
we have Entry Number 88.
This is "Candy Apple Style."
[applause]
[MUSIC - ANALOGUE
REVOLUTION, "HIJK POP"]
(SINGING) Sexy, sexy.
Yeah.
Sexy, sexy.
[applause]
Well done!
A job well done!
Very well! Well done!
- Good job, guys!
- MAN: Yeah!
CATHY (VOICEOVER): These boys nailed it.
I know that no Abby routine
could beat that.
[suspenseful music]
CHRISTI (VOICEOVER): I'm kind of nervous.
Cathy's boys did an amazing job.
And everyone knows
at dance competitions boys stand out.
I mean, the crowd loves them.
They're very entertaining.
And girls are really a dime a dozen.
You know, I know
our girls are better dancers,
but is it enough to beat boys?
I'm not so sure.
ANNOUNCER 2: All right,
ladies and gentlemen.
We're ready to get started back up
in the Junior Small Group Division.
This is Entry Number 87,
entitled "Rosa Parks."
[applause]
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): It's
not about wanting to win.
It's about having to win.
It's tough
to get a group routine together,
and we've been losing week after week.
- Now I'm going to forget before this.
- No, no, no.
- Don't say it. If you say it, you're--
- Stop.
If we don't win with this number,
there might not be a group any longer,
and I'm serious about that.
[music - Maniac, "Is She Black"]
(SINGING) One bus leads to another bus
leads to another bus leads
to another bus leads to a train.
One dream leads to another dream
leads to another dream
leads to another dream leads to this.
Is she fighting?
Is she riding?
One thing leaves my eyes.
Is she fighting?
Is she riding?
One thing leaves my eyes.
One bus leads to another bus leads
to another bus
leads to another bus leads to a train.
One dream leads to another dream
leads to another dream
leads to another dream leads to this.
Is she fighting?
Is she riding?
One thing leaves my eyes.
Is she fighting?
Is she riding?
One thing leaves my eyes.
One day, I was another shade.
I was another shade.
- KELLY: Brooke, what are you doing?
- CHRISTI: I think it looks good.
Brooke doesn't know what she's doing.
[applause]
ABBY LEE: What is Brooke doing?
[cheering]
Brooke was standing there on stage like--
ABBY LEE (VOICEOVER): Brooke has
been dancing longer than Maddie
has been alive.
When she's wandering aimlessly
on the stage, I'm thinking,
how could she screw up a group like that?
- KENDALL: Brooke, it was--
- [interposing voices]
KENDALL: I don't even think
the judges noticed. You're fine.
PAIGE: But, Brooke,
at least it wasn't the whole dance.
No, Abby did, and she did.
Before Brooke's big mistake
on stage,
I think we had this one in the bag.
Now, I'm not too sure.
I just hope the judges didn't notice.
[electronic dance music]
[applause]
ANNOUNCER 2: Here we go.
In the Elite Junior Solo Division,
in seventh place,
"February."
In sixth place, "Working 9 to 5."
- Yeah, woo!
- [applause]
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Jalen's lesson
to be learned today
was never storm off stage,
never let them see you sweat.
In third place, "With Heart."
In second place,
Entry Number 22, "Look At Me Now."
[uplifting music]
Kendall came in second
in the overalls.
I thought she was amazing.
I think she did everything
that Abby asked of her.
And in first place, Entry Number 34,
"Breaking Down Walls."
MELISSA: Woo!
Woo!
Maddie has always been a winner,
of course, in my eyes.
MELISSA (VOICEOVER): But for the judges
to validate that she won
this time is huge for Maddie.
She really needed this
Top 10 Highest Elite Junior Duet/Trio.
In third place,
Entry Number 67, "Born to Hum."
[applause]
In second place, Entry Number 68,
"Putting on the Ritz."
And in first place for Top 10
Highest Elite Junior Duet/Trio,
Entry Number 72, "Broadway Blondes."
Yeah!
Woo!
I'm so happy that Chloe and Paige
went out there and won.
Because if they would have
went out there and lost,
I would've never heard
the end of it from Abby.
And I think that,
you know, Paige went out there,
and she made Abby eat crow,
because she showed her
that she can dance with Chloe.
For Highest Elite Junior Small Group,
Third Place,
Entry Number 81, "Pure Love."
[applause]
Second place, Entry Number
88, "Candy Apple Style."
I told them.
[interposing voices]
I can't breathe at this moment.
Who is going to win?
First place, Entry
Number 87, "Rosa Parks."
- CHRISTI: Yeah!
- KELLY: Woo!
[applause]
ANNOUNCER 2: First place from--
ALL: Abby Lee Dance Company!
[dramatic music]
I had my doubts
about Abby's choreography
of whether she's gonna be able to portray
Rosa Parks in a two-minute number.
But there was a moment in the dance
when Nia has to put herself down,
and Maddie walks on her back.
And you're like, oh, you know,
it's just such a powerful symbolism.
Abby did a lovely job.
Cathy hasn't shut her trap the whole day.
Because she thought
they were going to win.
And now she's like, doop.
Cathy has been talking crap
all competition.
She has been in our face all day.
Cat got your tongue now, Cathy?
And that little boy
whose dad never shuts up?
Oh, my God.
Like, his kid couldn't do half the dance.
That's why he was off of stage.
If it isn't hip hop, he can't do it.
I personally think
that dance dads are way worse
than dance moms.
And, you know, Jalen's dad
has definitely proved that.
CHRISTI: Jill, you know what
you should go in there and say?
JILL: No, I'm not going in there.
- CHRISTI: Yes, you are.
- No.
Last time we faced Cathy,
there was a big fight, and I missed it.
Now, I want a chance
to go in there and gloat,
and I want all the moms to come with me.
MELISSA: If we all go together, we'll go.
Melissa's all on board.
- We're all going to go in as a team.
- HOLLY: What?
Melissa, are you going to say something?
I've been saying stuff to her
in the dr-- in the-- yeah.
CHRISTI: All right, Melissa.
We'll go in as long as you say something.
MELISSA: I'm not saying anything.
Melissa talks a lot of smack
when Cathy's not around.
But when Cathy's around,
Melissa's all like, "Oh, Cathy,
I love your dress."
If we go in, we have to go in as a team,
and we have to stick up for one another.
Should we all go with a bottle of water?
- No. [laughs]
- HOLLY: No! [laughter]
[inaudible]
I'm happy that we got what we got.
We're not going to walk away losers.
We're going to walk away that,
you know, we're number 2.
We're going to try harder again.
- Hello.
Wait a minute.
Where's our bodyguards?
- Well, well, well.
- They're not working--
- CATHY: Where's the bodyguards?
- very well out there.
[inaudible].
- Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
- RICK: Well, well, well
Is this a mug shot line-up?
- One quarter-turn to the right!
- Holly did it.
Oh, ladies, when you do that
quarter-turn, suck them in.
Suck them in.
These moms are mistaken
if they think
that they can intimidate me.
They may have a win today,
but it's not going to happen again.
Your son did two minutes of the dance
because, obviously,
he can't do the dancing portion of it.
He can only do the hip hop.
What has your child done
outside of this on their own?
Simmer down!
This guy's kid has more talent
in his little finger than your kid.
Oh, wait a minute, Kelly.
KELLY: Because he can do
more styles of dance.
- CATHY: Kelly--
- Yours can only spin on his head.
Every time I've seen your kids,
they do the exact same move!
There's nothing different.
CATHY (VOICEOVER): Kelly's throwing
a lot of stones
for someone
whose daughter forgot the routine.
My routine had no mistakes.
Oh, Kelly, how soon we forget.
Cathy, maybe you should
have spent the money
on more lessons
instead of improving the studio.
- CATHY: Bye!
- Or maybe a little--
Thank you.
Always a pleasure!
[cheering]
[laughter]
Woo-hoo!
MELISSA: I feel like we should hug, too.
- JILL: So?
- CHRISTI: I have one thing to say!
JILL: Go for it.
Ding, dong, the witch is dead!
I think those are pallbearers out there.
They're not bodyguards.
They're carrying
their casket down the hallway.
[laughs]
Kendall, you were told to use your face.
You used your face.
That was your lesson this week.
You did it, and look where you were.
Maddie, you finally
climbed that uphill battle.
You knocked down the wall.
First overall high score--
deservedly so.
You were-- I thought
you were brilliant today.
All right.
How about my duet?
- Woo!
- Woo-hoo.
- I told you we could do it.
- Yes.
You were pretty sassy up there.
What about the group?
- [cheering]
- Woo!
Brooke, were you just waiting
at the bus stop for the bus?
[laughs]
What-- I don't know
what happened out there.
But the bus was moving,
the bus was happening,
and Brooke was just kind
of standing at the bus stop,
waiting for everybody to get on the bus.
[laughter]
- MELISSA: What did she do?
- CHRISTI: Nothing. That's the problem.
- MELISSA: I didn't want--
- CHRISTI: (LAUGHING) She stood there.
Well, I just want you to know
that I think that Rosa Parks
would be very proud of you.
- [laughs] Thank you.
- OK?
You did a great job, great job.
Thank you for giving her an opportunity.
You were a big distraction
from the bus stop here.
[laughter]
I'm patting myself on the back,
because I did an outstanding job
with the costuming.
I knew we were coming to Ohio.
I knew she was going to be here.
And I just felt like
I needed to pull out the stops,
because I was never going
to let her get the best of us again.
I'm just not going to do it.
Cathy's mishmash applesauce is no match
for a fully-functioning ALDC.
When we're on, we're unstoppable.
Cathy's crazy.
I mean, all the money she spends,
all the money flying
these boys in,
the same thing with the choreographer--
blah, blah, blah--
money can't buy talent.
Moms? Moms?
I want positive energy.
If you're gonna badmouth me
in your house,
wait till your kid goes to sleep!
Mackenzie, you are not in the group dance.
Frankly, I don't think you can keep up.
If the group dance messes up,
it's on Mackenzie.
What you got on your finger there?
- Wait, what?
- He what?
This is what she does to you every week,
and you let her psych you out.
[dramatic music]
What was that exit about?
JILL: This is your team.
These are your girls.
This is your name on their back.
So you have to give them some sort of--
I'm really nervous.